Hello
I will be addressing this message from the train I am travelling in
because a special circumstance calls me to it.
Today, is the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia
and, I wanna talk about it.
When talking about homosexuality,
we are talking about somebody's sexual orientation.
Sexuality is one of the fundamental dimensions
of a human being.
So we have to make things clear about this,
we have to think about it.
And, to not just simply abstain ourselves on purely moral reasons for fear of speaking poorly,
that's not the point.
We have to understand what human beings are.
Sexual orientation is not a choice,
it's not a habit we learn.
It's an orientation
that makes you, by your very being, like one sex or the other,
and since it is not a choice, it makes us able to think about the absurdity it is
to blame people in this situation for it.
That translates to extremely violent acts,
to words that hurt, humiliate!
it doesn't make any sense!
Practices of discrimination
and very often, tragedy,
because, for example, in a family they do not accept their child's homosexuality
and they kick them out.
It's terrifying!
Of course, we have to take in consideration the people who are pained by this,
but we have to realise it's terrifying,
those who are being kicked out can't do anything about it,
it's not their choice!
And, at times there are acts of violence
from people that are uncomfortable
with themselves, not others,
who are being violent against gay people
as a way of expelling their own sexual ambiguity...
So...
Our fight against homophobia,
Is a fight which is not merely a feeling of fraternity and humanity,
it is also profoundly philosophical, which states that "All human beings are alike."
And their similarity to one another does not depend on what they do.
Their similarities depend on who they are and what needs they have.
It is very important to understand that.
And, it is the same thing when it comes to transgender people.
Transgenderism is often very moving,
firstly when it comes to understanding, most of us have to think deeply
to understand the journey, the logic that defines a transgender person.
But, if we really think about it, and once we have made the effort of thinking about it,
and I'm asking that we all do,
well, we have to say that transgender people are a very good news for humanity
because it proves that
human similarities
go beyond gender
and thus there is indeed one human identity
transcending all human practices
and which unites us in our similarity.
I think that
it's always best to look towards where progress can be made for all of us
because condemning things, and uttering non-sensical, hurtful, upsetting words
being violent,
none of this leads anywhere;
Everybody knows that when they think about it for five minutes.
That's why I think that this day against homophobia
and against transphobia must allow us to better ourselves.
Giving us time to think.
Once the thinking is done,
our perception of reality changes,
and it becomes possible to improve.
And, it is obviously the aim we should set,
while we try to think philosophically,
and here, in this case
politically,
since, as you know,
political forces are being built
by using homophobia and transphobia as fuel.
It is absurd!
As absurd as racism is!
It has no objective basis.
But you see how
bettering everyone's understanding  of the situation, however, has a political impact
I, for one, bet that once that
as soon as the law condemns,
let me remind you, slander
and, in particular, slander of homophobic or transphobic nature
which are punished by law.
As soon as the law allows that,
those who wish it,
may get married,
same-sex couples included,
then there will be a good framework,
for, starting there, spirits will change.
This will not wash away what you may think of yourself,
but, undoubtedly, the way you look at others will be different.
Therefore, it is a philosophical struggle
and a political struggle
against those who have homophobia and transphobia more or less unthoughtfully
which some people feel when confronted to something they do not understand,
and, as you know,
the lack of understanding
most often leads straight to oversimplicistic explanations.
There. That's what I wanted to tell you.
During the presidential campaign,
maybe you remember it,
but I took some time during our meeting in Lille
to stop and speak about one event
which we'd just learned about, in Chechnya.
The persecution of homosexuals.
And I thought it important to mention
to the people who were there, and you see
the room, which was filled to the brink with people,
I don't remember how many were there, eight or fourteen thousands, no matter, we were many,
well, I felt that there was good will, because
in great numbers, people applauded my condemnation
of homophobia.
"And of course we have a special thought,
since we just this information was just confirmed
for the homosexual people, in Chechnya
who are the target of arrests and violences of all kind."
Above all, when I read to the people gathered, the heinous speech of this chechnyan official,
who said that, "In any case, there is no persecution
because there were no gays in Chechnya"
[exasperation]
Obviously, in Chechnya, like everywhere in the world,
like in every society...
But this speech was a total brutality,
because it was denying the very reality of these factual events.
Thus, it amounts to the worst,
that is, calling people with different sexual orientations
sick, insane or vicious or who knows what else.
"To object to those accusations,
Mr. Alvi Karimov, spokesman of the Chechnyan leader Ramzan Kadirov,
stated to the news agency, when he was asked 'What happened? You are arresting and imprisoning people! For the fact that they are homosexual!
Why good would that do?
He said:
"You can't arrest and detain people who don't exist in this republic.
Homosexuality does not exist here."
You see, [booing] when such things are said, the situation is really bad.
And then, he added something extremely cruel,
and that's why I want to say something about it tonight,
he added: "if such people existed in Chechnya," - and of course they do exist -
"the law wouldn't have to deal with them," he said
"since it's their own parents who would have already sent them where they would never be back.""
Well, today,
I'm stating again that I shall participate in the fight against homophobia and transphobia.
I understood all of this for a very long time.
Frankly, it as not my topic of choice,
but in 1988, I was sent to a meeting
organised by an association called "Gays For Freedom"
and they were the ones who
first made me aware of the reality of what was happening,
when a homosexual couple had...
at the time, it was when AIDS killed many, during those tragic years,
the heartbreak when their loved one died,
the evictions, the family that turned them down,
all of that cruelty, sometimes unintended, all of it
befalling on homosexual people.
And thus, I was honored to be the first to
think of proposing legislation
concerning gay marriage.
My law was named "Law For Civil Partnership"
and it was dropped on the Senate's desk,
it was the first time it happened,
in the parliamentary assembly, in France,
in 1991
There. I think that
during this day of struggles,
we should always think on how to personally participate and contribute,
And, I think, all of you who are listening to me, first because you are indeed listening to me, [laugh]
are thinking, maybe,
but also, go for it!
Go to people who have false impressions on the matter,
who think wrongly, in a bigoted way.
Talk to them! It's worth it because
when you tell them: "You know, it is not a choice."
I swear, it changes everything.
They start questioning.
And they introspect,
There's something good, deep down all of us,
Let's not believe... let's not believe there's only wickedness. It's not true.
There's always something good. If we bet on that, we can trigger the right thing and BAM!
We get results [thumbs up!] That's it. See you soon!